README.md, before:

<!-- mdlint off(LINE_OVER_80) -->
# Simply: Minimal Code for Frontier LLM Research in JAX

*Simply* is a minimal and scalable research codebase in JAX, designed for rapid iteration on frontier research in LLM and other autoregressive models.

- *Quick to [fork and hack](#getting-started)* for fast iteration. You should be able to implement your research ideas (e.g., new architecture, optimizer, training loss, etc) in a few hours.
- *Minimal abstractions and dependencies* for a simple and self-contained codebase. Learn [Jax](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) (if you haven't), and you are ready to read and hack the code.
- That's it, *simply* [get started](#getting-started) with hacking now :)

## Getting started
### Example commands

#### Local test for debug
```shell
EXP=simply_local_test_1; rm -rf /tmp/${EXP}; python -m simply.main --experiment_config lm_test --experiment_dir /tmp/${EXP} --alsologtostderr
```
Or if you want to debug by printing arrays like normal python code, you can disable `jit` and `use_scan` using the command below.

```shell
export JAX_DISABLE_JIT=True; EXP=simply_local_test_1; rm -rf /tmp/${EXP}; python -m simply.main --experiment_config lm_no_scan_test --experiment_dir /tmp/${EXP} --alsologtostderr
```

## Dependencies

The main dependencies are:
[Jax](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) for model and training.
[Orbax](https://orbax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for checkpoint management.
[SeqIO](https://github.com/google/seqio) for data pipeline.

Install dependencies:

```bash
# JAX installation is environment-specific. See https://docs.jax.dev/en/latest/installation.html
# CPU:
pip install -U jax
# GPU:
pip install -U "jax[cuda13]"
# TPU:
pip install -U "jax[tpu]"
# Other dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Setup Model Checkpoints and Datasets

Download datasets and model checkpoints in format supported by Simply from HuggingFace:

```bash
# Install huggingface_hub
pip install huggingface_hub

# Download both models and datasets
python setup/setup_assets.py

# Or download only models/datasets
python setup/setup_assets.py --models-only
python setup/setup_assets.py --datasets-only
```

This will download models to `~/.cache/simply/models/` and datasets to `~/.cache/simply/datasets/`. You can customize locations with `--models-dir` and `--datasets-dir` flags, or set environment variables `SIMPLY_MODELS` and `SIMPLY_DATASETS`. (Currently we only included a few datasets and models for testing, and will add more soon.)

## Citation

If you find *Simply* helpful, please cite the following BibTeX:

```
@misc{Liang2025Simply,
  author       = {Chen Liang and Da Huang and Chengrun Yang and Xiaomeng Yang and Andrew Li and Xinchen Yan and {Simply Contributors}},
  title        = {{Simply: an experiment to accelerate and automate AI research}},
  year         = {2025},
  howpublished = {GitHub repository},
  url          = {https://github.com/google-deepmind/simply}
}
```

Contributors list:
Alex Zhai, [Xingjian Zhang](https://github.com/xingjian-zhang), [Jiaxi Tang](https://github.com/graytowne), [Lizhang Chen](https://github.com/L-z-Chen), [Ran Tian](https://github.com/tianran)

## License

Copyright 2025 Google LLC

All software is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (Apache 2.0); you may not use this file except in compliance with the Apache 2.0 license. You may obtain a copy of the Apache 2.0 license at: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

All other materials are licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC-BY). You may obtain a copy of the CC-BY license at: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, all software and materials distributed here under the Apache 2.0 or CC-BY licenses are distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the licenses for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under those licenses.

This is not an official Google product.

Commit message:

Update README with new example commands

README.md, after:

<!-- mdlint off(LINE_OVER_80) -->
# Simply: Minimal Code for Frontier LLM Research in JAX

*Simply* is a minimal and scalable research codebase in JAX, designed for rapid iteration on frontier research in LLM and other autoregressive models.

- *Quick to [fork and hack](#getting-started)* for fast iteration. You should be able to implement your research ideas (e.g., new architecture, optimizer, training loss, etc) in a few hours.
- *Minimal abstractions and dependencies* for a simple and self-contained codebase. Learn [Jax](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) (if you haven't), and you are ready to read and hack the code.
- That's it, *simply* [get started](#getting-started) with hacking now :)

## Getting started
### Example commands

#### Local test for debug
```shell
EXP=simply_local_test_1; rm -rf /tmp/${EXP}; python -m simply.main --experiment_config lm_test --experiment_dir /tmp/${EXP} --alsologtostderr
```
Or if you want to debug by printing arrays like normal python code, you can disable `jit` and `use_scan` using the command below.

```shell
export JAX_DISABLE_JIT=True; EXP=simply_local_test_1; rm -rf /tmp/${EXP}; python -m simply.main --experiment_config lm_no_scan_test --experiment_dir /tmp/${EXP} --alsologtostderr
```

#### RL training with Gemma 2B on GSM8K

Before running the example, you need to [download the model checkpoints and datasets](#setup-model-checkpoints-and-datasets).

```shell
EXP=gemma2b_gsm8k_rl; rm -rf /tmp/${EXP}; python -m simply.main --experiment_config gemma2_2b_gsm8k_0shot_rl --experiment_dir /tmp/${EXP} --alsologtostderr
```


#### Small-scale pretraining (2e16 FLOPs)
```shell
EXP=pretrain_small; rm -rf /tmp/${EXP}; python -m simply.main --experiment_config flops2e16_tfm15m_c4_l2048 --experiment_dir /tmp/${EXP} --alsologtostderr
```

#### Mesh shape configuration
The above examples use default mesh shapes: data parallelism (FSDP) for training, and model (tensor) parallelism for decoding. You can customize with:
- `--mesh_shape`: Training mesh shape (e.g., `--mesh_shape 1,8,1` for replica, data, model axes)
- `--decoding_mesh_shape`: Decoding mesh shape
- `--dcn_mesh_shape`: DCN mesh shape for multi-slice deployments

Note: This is for dense models. Guide for MoE models coming soon.

## Dependencies

The main dependencies are:
[Jax](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) for model and training.
[Orbax](https://orbax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for checkpoint management.
[SeqIO](https://github.com/google/seqio) for data pipeline.

Install dependencies:

```bash
# JAX installation is environment-specific. See https://docs.jax.dev/en/latest/installation.html
# CPU:
pip install -U jax
# GPU:
pip install -U "jax[cuda13]"
# TPU:
pip install -U "jax[tpu]"
# Other dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Setup Model Checkpoints and Datasets

Download datasets and model checkpoints in format supported by Simply from HuggingFace:

```bash
# Install huggingface_hub
pip install huggingface_hub

# Download both models and datasets
python setup/setup_assets.py

# Or download only models/datasets
python setup/setup_assets.py --models-only
python setup/setup_assets.py --datasets-only
```

This will download models to `~/.cache/simply/models/` and datasets to `~/.cache/simply/datasets/`. You can customize locations with `--models-dir` and `--datasets-dir` flags, or set environment variables `SIMPLY_MODELS` and `SIMPLY_DATASETS`. (Currently we only included a few datasets and models for testing, and will add more soon.)

## Citation

If you find *Simply* helpful, please cite the following BibTeX:

```
@misc{Liang2025Simply,
  author       = {Chen Liang and Da Huang and Chengrun Yang and Xiaomeng Yang and Andrew Li and Xinchen Yan and {Simply Contributors}},
  title        = {{Simply: an experiment to accelerate and automate AI research}},
  year         = {2025},
  howpublished = {GitHub repository},
  url          = {https://github.com/google-deepmind/simply}
}
```

Contributors list:
Alex Zhai, [Xingjian Zhang](https://github.com/xingjian-zhang), [Jiaxi Tang](https://github.com/graytowne), [Lizhang Chen](https://github.com/L-z-Chen), [Ran Tian](https://github.com/tianran)

## License

Copyright 2025 Google LLC

All software is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (Apache 2.0); you may not use this file except in compliance with the Apache 2.0 license. You may obtain a copy of the Apache 2.0 license at: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

All other materials are licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC-BY). You may obtain a copy of the CC-BY license at: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, all software and materials distributed here under the Apache 2.0 or CC-BY licenses are distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the licenses for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under those licenses.

This is not an official Google product.
